
1.Suppose Alice works for a company that designs commercial solar panels. Her job is to test prototypes for defects and risks. In the company's new design SP3333, there is
a defect: Short circuits and overheating of a key component are likely when the ambient air temperature rises above 50 degrees Celsius. However, despite testing SP3333, 
Alice never comes across any defect because none of her tests are carried out above 50 degrees. Because Alice approves SP3333, it is developed for the market. When SP3333 has
been on the market for one year, a fire is reported due to a short circuit that happened in conditions of high ambient air temperature. Alice claims that she is not responsible 
for the fire. What is the best thing to conclude about this situation?

ANS:Alice is not morally responsible for the fire because she did not know about the problem.



2.Suppose that for fun, Janssen purposely hacks information from the email account of a colleague without permission. Which of the following conditions of passive responsibility
is Janssen missing in such a case?
ANS:All of the conditions of passive moral responsibility are met


3.Which of the following best explains the fact that it is possible for an engineer to have conflicting responsibilities as a result of being both an employee of a company and
a professional engineer.  
ANS:Role responsibility


4.In January 1986, space shuttle Challenger crashed shortly after take-off. Both the NASA project team and the Morton Thiokol management made a causal contribution to the
disaster because both could have averted the disaster by postponing the launch. Apart from causal contribution, in order for someone to be blameworthy, usually the following 
conditions need to apply:
ANS: (1), (3), (5)


5.Which of the following elements is necessary in order for a person to be morally responsible for a bad consequence for his or her action? 
ANS:The individual knew, or should have known, that the bad consequence was a possible outcome of his or her conduct. 


6.Which of the elements below is not part of the passive responsibility of an individual in cases of structural failures?
ANS:The individual did not comply with the advisory code of conduct.


7.What is a whistleblower? Choose the statement that best describes the term. 
ANS:A whistleblower is an employee of an organisation who goes beyond the call of duty and beyond what is expected of her to report a problem within the organisation to external
parties in the interest of the public good, without observing normal procedures and without being loyal to his or her employer. 

8.Ideally, a whistle-blower should have evidence that would convince a reasonable, impartial observer that the threat to the public is real.
ANS:true


9.Several months after the Challenger disaster Boisjoly, the engineer, said the following: "I must emphasize, I had my say, and I never [would] take [away] any management right 
to take the input of an engineer and then make a decision based upon that input …. I have worked at a lot of companies … and I truly believe that, … there was no point in me
doing anything further [other] than [what] I had already attempted to do." 
ANS:separatism




10.To which model is paternalism an objection?
ANS:Technocracy
