
Public Health and Safety —Delay in Addressing Fire Code Violations

Engineer A, a fire protection engineer, is retained by Client to provide a confidential report in connection with the possible renovation of an old apartment building owned by 
Client.Engineer A conducts an audibility test of the fire alarm inside occupied residential units. The audibility test showed the alarm could not be heard within all of the 
residential units, which is in violation of the local fire code. The problem with the alarm may have existed since the time the building was constructed or when the fire alarm 
system was replaced in 1978.

Engineer A advises the Client regarding the results of the audibility tests and the code violation. In a follow-up telephone conversation with Client, Engineer A is told that the 
financing for the renovation has fallen through and that the renovation project will be delayed, which means that the problems with the fire alarm system will not be addressed
immediately but in the future when funding is available. Engineer A is paid for his services.


1.Problem statement: Give a short formulation of the problem that is at stake in this case *
ANS:Engineer A, a fire protection engineer, is retained by Client to provide a confidential report in connection with the possible renovation of an old apartment building owned by 
Client.Engineer A conducts an audibility test of the fire alarm inside occupied residential units that showed the alarm could not be heard within all of the residential units,
which is in violation of the local fire code.In a follow-up telephone conversation with Client, Engineer A is told that the financing for the renovation has fallen through and 
that the renovation project will be delayed, which means that the problems with the fire alarm system will not be addressed immediately but in the future when funding is available.
Engineer A is paid for his services which is against to the public health and safety.


2.Options for action: Engineer A has various options for action in this case. Make a list of options for actions from which he or she can choose.
ANS: # Engineer A should immediately advise the Client that appropriate steps must be taken to protect the occupants of the building from the risks associated with the local fire
code violation.
     #As Engineer A determines there is an imminent and ongoing risk to the health,safety, and welfare of the building occupants, and the Client does not want to remove these 
issues, Engineer A should  to report the violation to code enforcement officials.
     #As Engineer A so determines the presence of such an imminent risk, he should immediately advise the Client that appropriate steps must be taken to protect the occupants of 
 the building from the risks associated with the fire code violation. Then, if the Client does not address these issues, Engineer A would be obligated to report the violation
 to code enforcement officials. The Board further felt that the fire alarm defect in this case does in fact rise to the level of an imminent and ongoing public safety risk.
 
 
 3.Intuitive answer: What would you do in this case if you were Engineer A?
 ANS:Though the obligation of the engineer to refrain from revealing confidential information, data, and facts concerning the business affairs of the client without consent of  
 the client is a significant ethical obligation.But according to me public health and safety more prior than any other obligation .so I will immediately advise the Client that
 appropriate steps must be taken to protect the occupants of the building from the risks associated with the fire code violation. Then, if the Client does not address these
 issues, then i will report the violation to code enforcement officials immediately. Then the Board will further take decision in this case of an imminent and ongoing public 
 safety risk.
 
 
 4.NSPE Code of Ethics for Engineers: 1.Select the articles of the NSPE Code of Ethics for Engineers (https://www.nspe.org/resources/ethics/code-ethics) that are the most 
 relevant for the case. Explain briefly how the chosen articles apply to the case. 2.Indicate for each article from the code how well the options for action score on that 
 article. 3.What should you do according to this analysis, and is it a clear, unambiguous advice? Motivate your answer.
 ANS:
 1.Rules of Practice : It is relevant to this case as it is clearly mentioned  engineers shall hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public, shall perform 
 services only in the areas of their competence, shall issue public statements only in an objective and truthful manner,shall act for each employer or client as faithful 
 agents or trustees, shall avoid deceptive acts. So I think rules of practice is the artical that an engineer should know.
 2.Professional Obligations: It is to relevant with this case because here mentioned that engineers shall be guided in all their relations by the highest standards of 
 honesty and integrity, shall at all times strive to serve the public interest, shall avoid all conduct or practice that deceives the public etc. Here engineers should be honest
 loyal to the clients.
 
 According to me every engineer should know the rules of practice as there is clearly mentioned engineers shall hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public,shall perform 
 services only in the areas of their competence, shall issue public statements only in an objective and truthful manner,shall act for each employer or client as faithful 
 agents or trustees, shall avoid deceptive acts.In professional Obligations mentioned that engineers shall be guided in all their relations by the highest standards of 
 honesty and integrity, shall at all times strive to serve the public interest, shall avoid all conduct or practice that deceives the public etc. Here engineers should be honest
 loyal to the clients. So I think this articles is very important to the engineer to know about do's and don'ts during services.
 
 
Though the obligation of the engineer to refrain from revealing confidential information, data, and facts concerning the business affairs of the client without consent of  
 the client is a significant ethical obligation.But according to me public health and safety more prior than any other obligation .so I will immediately advise the Client that
 appropriate steps must be taken to protect the occupants of the building from the risks associated with the fire code violation. Then, if the Client does not address these
 issues, then I will report the violation to code enforcement officials immediately. Then the Board will further take decision in this case of an imminent and ongoing public 
 safety risk. According to me public safety is prior than any other thing but I have to keep eye on business affairs of the client.
 
 
 5.Reflection: Compare your intuitive answer to the outcomes of the analysis that you have carried out.Compare the outcomes of your analysis that you have carried out to the
 conclusion of the Board of Ethical Review (see Instruction text): What are the similarities and differences? Are you convinced by the decision of the Board of Ethical review?
 Motivate your answer. 
 ANS:According to me though the obligation of the engineer to refrain from revealing confidential information, data, and facts concerning the business affairs of the client without consent of  
 the client is a significant ethical obligation. But according to me public health and safety more prior than any other obligation .so I will immediately advise the Client that
 appropriate steps must be taken to protect the occupants of the building from the risks associated with the fire code violation. Then, if the Client does not address these
 issues, then I will report the violation to code enforcement officials immidiately. Then the Board will further take decision in this case of an imminent and ongoing public 
 safety risk.
  According to board of ethical review  Engineer A’s obligations hinge on his professional judgement regarding the level of risk posed by this fire code violation. An engineer
  with expertise in this area may determine the violation in this case to be an imminent and ongoing risk to the health, safety, and welfare of the building occupants. If
  Engineer A so determines the presence of such an imminent risk, he should immediately advise the Client that appropriate steps must be taken to protect the occupants of the 
  building from the risks associated with the fire code violation. Then, if the Client does not address these issues, Engineer A would be obligated to report the violation to 
  code enforcement officials. The Board further felt that the fire alarm defect in this case does in fact rise to the level of an imminent and ongoing public safety risk.
  There is no difference in outcome of analysis of the case from me with board of ethical review . But I think public safety is more prior then any other thing. 
 
 
  
 
